---
layout: post
title: About Me
---
<p> A creative engineer and programmer with over 5 years of experience in the field of medical devices, web development and robotics. An out of the box thinker, rapid-prototyping expert with experience in interdisciplinary team collaboration and solid programming skills keen to work on the next-gen breakthrough products.
</p>

## Experience

### Software Engineer at Philips HealthCare
<p>
Creating work that can make a positive impact of human life is something I am very passionate about. I have been able to do just that at my current workplace in Philips HealthCare where I work on building a connected health-ecosystem that can connect all medical devices from Philips and utilize the data and algorithms to deliver personalized medical diagnosis for the patients.
</p>

#### Recent Projects

#### Encryption of Philips Medical Devices
<p>
 I am the lead engineer of the project to encrypt the data for sleep apnea devices and ventilators.The cryptography package created will also be used to encrypt other medical devices following the completition of Phase 1 encryption.
</p>
<p>
The encryption is be based on the Advanced Encryption Standard 256-bit key Cipher Block Chaining (AES256-CBC) algorithm and public key exchange using the Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange (D-H) method.
</p>

#### Research on Internet of Medical Things
<p>
I was a part of the research team to identify opportunities for Philips in Internet of Medical Things. With my unique
background in electronics, software development and product development, I was the primary member for determining the
underlying network technologies to be used, the data security and privacy technologies and perforiming iterative prototyping.

Our team submitted a radical solution involving Philips proprietary close range connectivity to the Advanaced Research group
that focussed on utilizing Philips expertise to improve the weak-points of initial set-up and connectivity in smart medical devices.
</p>

#### Developed back-end logic to extract and analyse medical device data
<p>
Philips medical devices uses open source EDF data structure and in-house UDF data structure to record and transmit information from
device to back-end systems. I was the lead anchor of the Device Connectivity team that developed the low-level parsers and higher-level
summarizers to transform the data through algorithms into information that can be provided to hospitals for better diagnosis of patients.
</p>

#### RESTful API
<p>
Developed an API to be used for internal transfer of data between all the internal medical divisions of Philips HealthCare. There are several
internal divisions within Philips that could benefit from exchanging data (for e.g Sleep apnea division in Pittsburgh USA with COPD team in
Sichuan, China). The data from the different sources is to be passed through a machine learning tool to identify patterns in health diagnosis
and early onset of ptient symptons.
<p>


### Engineering Consultant at Bistrobot (a Y-Combinator Startup)
<p>
Built a proof of concept robotic bistro that can automatically prepare a sandwich based on user preferences.
- Designed the software and electronic architecture and state machine diagrams.
-	Used encoders and motor controls to operate the load-carrying mechanism with an accepted tolerance of 1mm.
-	Utilized PID control algorithms and IMU sensors to develop trajectory of motion for robot.
</p>

### Capstone Project at McKesson HealthCare Automation
<p>
Created a medication monitoring solution specifically targeted at improving compliance among young adults.
- Refined problem statement, brainstormed ideas and performed user research to identify an optimal solution.
- Was the engineering lead for the interdisciplinary team, designed a smart pill dispenser that can track dosage and compliance.
</p>

### Assistant Systems Engineer at Tata Consultancy Services
<p>
Worked on the design and implementation of large scale data storage (SAN and NAS) and virtualization systems.
-	Created Unix scripts to automate process of dynamic storage provisioning.
-	Administration and support for EMC and VMware based infrastructure.
-	Worked on design of business continuity and disaster recovery solutions.
</p>

